really bad all right what's up everybody
welcome to another episode of after
impact I am Tom bill you and this is
agent Smith there it is there it is all
right thanks everybody on the community
but calling him Agent Smith which
finally got him to really emotionally
embrace it stuck it did yep so today
we're gonna be talking about Tim Ferriss
and the episode that we did there's a
lot of fun was actually the second time
that I've interviewed Tim super good
dude
really really liked him and he's
somebody that's had a tremendous impact
on my life and when I read the 4-hour
workweek back end god when was that
I must been 2006-2007 something like
that that really began to be something
that laid the foundation for how we went
about quest and the notion of you know
getting really really efficient of your
time but most importantly in the book
the concept of the one thousand
screaming fans and that continues to be
a driver here at impact Theory
understanding that your communities your
everything understanding that you're
putting something together that is meant
to serve a group of people get them
super excited and I've given some talks
on it and yeah and that's still part of
my my repertoire and in the talks is to
talk about that concept of the thousand
screaming fans so mad love to Tim super
excited to bring him on talked about his
new book which we're gonna be doing big
giveaways giveaway giveaway we're gonna
be doing a hundred books a hundred books
books tools of titans you guys are gonna
want to dive into this one he's
basically condensed his podcast which is
amazing look I'm I'm doing a podcast I'm
here to tell you man his podcast is an
inspiration it's really good so tools of
titans distills all the people that he's
brought on I'm a big believer in
codifying the universe in
living by a code and to get to that code
you have to have a bunch of beliefs that
you've encountered yourself or that
somebody has been kind enough to distill
for you and that's what this book is it
has a whole bunch of experts and I know
that we're doing a giveaway around
exactly how many experts that is so I
won't give that away but yeah it's
amazing and it's chock full of just many
stuff so
Patamon and now we're gonna go deeper
yeah and before we get started I just
want to remind everyone listening that
we are doing after impact live on
Facebook and Instagram follow Tom bill
you in order to get access to that and
we're doing it every day that the
episode releases which is Tuesdays so
you can check the episode on the podcast
and come and join us for live and ask
your questions and get involved in this
conversation yeah so that that was the
idea behind this was really to invite
you guys into the conversation make you
a part of it I really want that to be
living and thriving and when I look
forward in terms of what's happening
with social media and where this is all
going I think that that's a that's a
critical part of it and there's gonna be
with any community there's gonna be
those super users that will come every
time they'll engage and you know really
want to be a part of that I had a guy
pitching me yesterday on an investment
and he's building a platform it's really
interesting and one of the things it
does it does a bunch of things but one
of the things that it does is notify you
when somebody comes into your stream
that's one of your super users mm-hmm so
that's pretty cool that would be
something that you know I think will be
super beneficial as we keep going so but
we want your questions so make sure that
you guys are diving in and letting us
know where you want to go with the
conversation and like agent Smith was
saying what we're hoping is you guys
have listened to the podcast before you
jump on and it'll be something that you
really want
drill deeper yeah and for those joining
us on Facebook and Instagram just know
that you can get the earliest access to
the episode by subscribing to the
podcast that's where we release it first
so it comes out 6 a.m. on Tuesday you
can catch it on your morning commute and
then be ready to discuss it here we're
having sound issues
[Music]
we can turn it down well it's gonna be
these mics here let us check our case
interesting and very helpful theories
here
check the connection over there so
that's better
that's a portion of a little bit nice
Wow where's this one our setup is so
much cleaner than it was in the past
underneath you got it already okay
let's better or worse or no change
that face doesn't look good all right so
unfortunately you're gonna have to
assume that we're good because I'm not
sure what we would do differently no
change so maybe we reposition the
microphone see they're saying that
there's a humming sound that's what
makes me nervous
bear with us live audience this one down
here maybe well that would certainly
make you less hot which is one of the
complaints but I'm Way more worried
about the buzzing so how are you and
buzzing anyone all right well there we
go
well we'll dive right in and we'll get
this fixed for next time what I would
like to ask for our first giveaway so if
you want to win this book right here
we're gonna be giving a hundred copies
away all the time starting now
so whoever shares this live video on
Facebook Instagram will get to you in a
second whoever shares this live video on
Facebook we will at the end of the
episode will tally those up and we'll
give a few copies away yeah I love them
so share please share share share all
right let's get started first question
let's talk about you're not feeling well
today true let's talk about suffering
good place to start
yeah so that was a big topic in the
episode Tim talks about Amelia Boone and
her in human capacity for suffering and
then you two connected on on how that
can be a benefit to you as an
entrepreneur do you think it's effective
for everyone to cultivate the ability to
suffer and then if so how do you get
better at that kind of endurance so an
answer you're gonna hear me say a lot is
every
comes down to identity right and if you
want to cultivate your identity it
really is about saying it out loud and
repeating it to yourself and then you
reinforce it in ways so like over there
behind the camera you've got I just put
this on my Instagram story I've got a
painting of Michael Jordan from the
famous flu game where he played with you
know they think it was probably food
poisoning but I think he had a
temperature and just really really was
just absolutely out of it and it has one
of the best games it was like Game five
or six of the series Miz crazy you don't
have to bring it my wife was literally
gonna drag it bigger than her but you
know doing things like that and putting
that up in the house and reinforcing
that in my identity as somebody who
aspires to that as somebody who sees
that as a part of my identity the
willingness to endure and when I came
across a quote from Nietzsche and it was
about that that he wishes on his friends
suffering self-loathing failure because
it will prove to you the only thing that
really matters and that's whether or not
you can endure that I marked that down
and I keep that and it's one of those
that you know I I returned too often so
yes I think that everybody would benefit
from it I mean if you're trying to do
something here's the thing I don't pass
moral judgment on people that want just
like a totally chill life I fully
respect that and that was a very
conscious choice for me especially when
when Lisa and I you know had amassed
wealth and it was like okay do I really
want to keep pushing because at this
point we could retire and and never have
to think about working again and that
just that didn't resonate with me and it
wasn't the identity that I wanted to
build and it didn't feel like me so but
I get it like I get the impulse for that
and I think it's a really valid choice
and if you can do that and that's what
you want and that feels right and I
think that you know that's the only
thing you can ask is is if whatever
you're doing should build a deep sense
of fulfillment in your life then for me
that's that is pursuit that is going
after skill set and
I am so fascinated deeply deeply
fascinated by what human beings are
capable of and when you look at you know
so I have the theory I read this please
don't think that I'm making it up that
you know humans are an active species
and they desire to first explore and
then conquer right that's just that is
innate to humans it's how we became the
apex predator and when I think about the
explorers of old and like why they would
put themselves through the kind of
hardships that they would to leave a
comfortable City or what we're about to
do in the future now where you're gonna
get colonialists that go to Mars and
they you know they're trading in a much
easier life where hey you can walk
outside actually breathe alright and
they're gonna you know trade that for a
life on Mars and I love that and I love
that humans are really asking and
answering the question of how far can we
push ourselves and I think that that is
just it's hardwired in us and I think
it's beautiful and and that may be the
difference I think a lot of people I'm
fine danger in that and I see nothing
but beauty yeah so Before we jump to the
next question
should we check in with the live
audience see how sound is going
all right great and I'll just remind
everyone that if you share this live
feed on Facebook you will be entered
into our giveaway to win tools of titans
I was just talking to somebody in fact
his name is Sam Gore is an incredible
human being and was one of the first
super fans of quest nutrition he's a
commentator on ESPN just a cool cool guy
there's a lot of tennis if you ever see
him like shadow mount socially at Sam V
Gore what what a cool dude and we were
just talking yesterday what you were oh
and he said because you were repeating
the thing he'd said at the beginning and
he said that audience has now turned
over so rapidly in a sporting match that
they're instructed to repeat every 15
minutes like their best material and I
thought what the hell and he said oh
they're so deep in the analytics of the
attention span and how often people come
and then the audience turns over and
every 15 minutes you have essentially an
entirely new audience in the live
sporting event that is crazy to me and
he talked about how they really are
looking at changing the length of
basketball games and baseball games
well I knew they were I knew they were
looking into baseball I didn't know
basketball I didn't know baseball that
actually makes more sense means that
that's at least a long attention span
but ya can't believe it they're all true
alright let's talk about self
optimization so Tim is constantly
refining his process it's very clear
from the episode and also from his book
the lenient he's constantly refining his
process asking himself tough questions
in order to get better do you think
that's his main reason why he's so
successful is that the main reason you
really threw a curveball at the end I
think it's a huge thing and I think
everybody should be self optimizing and
you know you and I both take notes when
we watch the episodes and that was also
one of the things that I wrote down I
thought that that was really interesting
and when he and I were talking it hit me
in real-time that you know what makes
Tim so fascinating is a willingness to
check his own assumptions and to make
that a part of his process to really ask
those questions you know what if I did
the opposite for 24 or 48 hours and he
goes into that in the episode and it's
really really fascinating and I think
that certainly a lot of things have come
from that do I think it's the main
reason that he's successful no but I
think that it's a very powerful tool all
right well let's follow up on that
question so a big part of finding
success is about putting in the work we
talked about that here right grinding it
out when you need to staying late when
you need to but how often though should
you self assess versus just grinding it
out like when when should you take a
step back look at your processes figure
out ways to optimize how much should you
be doing that it's interesting I've
never asked myself that question because
I I self assess a lot and I'm probably
multiple times a day will ask myself if
you know what I'm pushing or pursuing is
really the right answer and if I'm
getting myself what I want and I have my
list that I go over every morning
to go through you know what are the most
important things that I could be working
on right now and even just that title
that this is you know the document is
called the most most important things to
do really makes me ask is this the most
important thing you do but if you know
if you look at yourself and you know
that you don't do that that you very
much get caught up and that you have
perpetual motion and you know once you
put your nose down to the grindstone
that you just keep going keep going keep
going it would probably be incredibly
valuable to you to formalize that and to
you know I use alarms like crazy to set
an alarm you know I don't think you need
to do it more than once or twice a week
in fairness like you you should have
enough vision for where you're trying to
get to and the steps should be
relatively clear and you should have
been working through that that you know
if you're once or twice sort of a week
really checking your base assumption
okay great let's let's switch gears a
little bit so one of the stories that
ten tells and I think is in this book as
well is about Pixar and it really
fascinated me because he said that they
some of their best movies they started
with a draft and then completely threw
it out not rewrote the draft not refined
it but like completely changed the movie
and turned into their best work so he
uses that as a technique for creativity
that sometimes you have to scrap your
first project how do you know when to
scrap the project for me it really comes
from frustration and you write a lot so
I'm sure that you get this where you're
working on something working on it and
you can just sort of feel that slipping
away and it's like you know for me it
largely comes from like I start to be
embarrassed and I start to get this
feeling that like oh my god like am I
not good at this you know ii mean and
and it comes from that almost a anxiety
and frustration and i try to really
cultivate the the side of it that's
aggressive and frustrated so that i can
get to a breaking point it's like HIPAA
CAC you know where sometimes vomiting
and like going all the way just clears
out the system and so you know if i can
get to that point where i push through
the sort of insecurity and self-doubt
and get to that light
you know [__] this moment like I'm
starting over like it doesn't matter how
much time I have in this like and really
capture that momentum of the the
irritation like then you can channel
that into something really pretty neat I
mean and I actually welcome that moment
like I hate it in-between like I love it
when it field is just working and it's
clicking and I love it when I get to the
full-blown like rage of like bye I'm
gonna start over I'm gonna do this I'm
gonna kill her you know and I absolutely
hate the the moment in between words
like oh I don't know is this coming
together and so yeah i'm i think if you
can learn to cultivate that to really
push yourself deeper and deeper into
that and and sense that unease and that
was something I really had to train
myself to do was sense the unease right
that the unease means something and when
when people can learn to read those
biological processes like for instance I
can tell like I'll start to get anxious
if I get to the edge of my knowledge and
I'm still talking
because then I'm like wait a second I'm
now drifting out of what I really know
and understand and I'm getting into
prognosticating or you know just sort of
really uneducated hypothesizing and so I
I've learned to trust that sense of
unease there and and just either make
sure that I you know tell myself hey
you're this is something now that you
need to have learn more about or this is
something that you need to frame the
discussion around not being an area of
expertise and so you'll hear me when I'm
talking about something ham not an
expert in this or you know I really
don't know a lot about this or whatever
just to make sure people understand that
that I get it but that that's me feeling
that unease and I didn't always do that
and there would be times where I'd be
you know deep into a discussion about
something and I'm sort of making it up
on the fly and just being fascinated by
where it's going but not recognizing
like
how uneasy I've become with with what
I'm saying yeah that's interesting so
jumping off of that question talking
about pushing through the projects that
aren't going well until you get to a
point where you're happy with it
what about Tim's idea about lowering
your expectations but specifically
around creative pursuits lowering your
expectations in order to get started and
why is that such an effective tool and
do you have any examples of how you've
applied that in your life when you know
what's funny is I have a huge example of
how that's applied in my life but when
he gave the answer I had to laugh out
loud because it was not what I expected
Tim Ferriss to say yeah you know he's so
processed driven that I'm not sure if
that means I should have expected it or
that it should have taken me as
surprised as it did but it really did
take me by surprise but his answers
really which is you know you get into
performance anxiety when you really want
something to be great and Tim is
somebody that I think is an exceptional
writer and really is an exceptional
experimenter and conceptualize er like
the way that he can conceive of the
problem the fact you know the story that
he tells about when he was a sales guy
and he asked himself you know what if I
did the opposite so everybody else
making calls from 9:00 to 5:00 yeah what
if I did the opposite was making calls
from like you know 6 to 8:30 or whatever
like I wouldn't even think to ask that
question so that was was very very
powerful the example that I have in my
own life of the time where I've used
lowering my expectations to great effect
was Instagram and it's the it's the
story that I told when he and I were
talking in a super embarrassing but it's
really become a beautiful reminder for
me of not being paralyzed by wanting to
be so good that you never actually do it
yeah and there was one weekend where I
had decided that I was really gonna make
Instagram like amazing and I was so fed
up with how much like BS content there
was on Instagram I thought I'm I'm gonna
make these like mini essays right that
you could and at one point I was
thinking these are gonna be like the
chapters to my book
which is a horrible idea to do for
Instagram by the way if I could just let
everybody know that is not the medium
and talk about fundamentally
misunderstanding your audience and the
platform so I was writing these you know
very detailed things and there was one
it took me nine hours and I was like
this is this is an Instagram post
something like you cannot spend nine
hours how many words was that they limit
you it's like 770 I'm just really sure
it's a short blog post yeah yeah so I
was like dude 9 hours this is absolutely
criminal and and honest and my thing was
it just in scale then I was like okay if
I'm really gonna do this like one a week
and you'd be spending nine hours like
that's crazy town so I just put a I
didn't think of it as lowering my
expectations I thought of it is making a
demand I I can only spend 20 minutes on
this and once I said okay I can only
spend 20 minutes on it then everything
changed and now I'd probably spend like
five minutes on them and I am actually
getting a bigger reaction now than I was
back then
and it's way like getting that short
forced me to really analyze who's my
audience because I stopped writing it
for myself and trying to think that like
this is that's writing you know and
making it about okay who's the audience
what's the platform and really making
something that was who brought then to
that so when he was saying that I was
like you know what that actually really
resonates a slight twist on how I
thought of it but it was it was much
clearer even than the way that I'd
conceived of it in my own mind and you
know it doesn't mean that you're not
trying to do something that's effective
and I think that switching your mind
from effective to or away from like
great to just effective like what's
gonna be effective in his moment is huge
and so is that concept really helped me
with that yeah it's a great example of
stepping back and kind of looking at
your current process and figuring out
how do you optimize how do you make this
better so yeah that's it worked for that
for you and if anybody likes oh people
always ask you know about process about
how you get better at something I want
to tell you that right now I'm going
through that you guys are watching me do
it in real time
unfortunately mental transformation is
is invisible but because I don't feel
great today I don't say that I feel
terribly but I definitely do not feel
good I'm actually having a hard time
remembering your question as I'm
answering and so I'm forcing myself to
like hold that in my head because it's
actually something that I'm already not
great at and now that I'm sort of off a
step that's another thing and so I'm I'm
really forcing myself to practice and I
just can't tell people enough how every
every moment of your life is an
opportunity to practice and I'm not
sitting here thinking like oh my god I
have to deliver this amazing performance
I'm thinking this is a great opportunity
to practice holding something in my head
while I'm you know expanding on
something else and just practice and it
seems like such a perfect time for me to
practice it now today because it's
harder today so I'm Way more grabbed
aware of the process let's let's check
in with our live audience do we have any
questions from the community
I'm Michael foster man you want to talk
about a superuser this guy is not
playing around Michael first of all I
notice every time you post my man thanks
for being a part of this strategy so the
question is for Tom have you ever
considered writing a book like tools of
titans that has all of the tactics
techniques and mindset shifts from the
guests on in fact they're an inside
quest no but I am working on I'm I
should say the most truthful answer is I
am putting in motion the things that
will need to be done in order to have a
book in the next 12 months which is
basically taking all the content that
we've put out and turning it into a book
so that I'm not having to sit down and
sort of think of all this stuff from
scratch I you know I've been talking
about it non-stop for the last two years
so yeah gonna boil that down into a book
I could see doing later doing something
like this but honestly when I really
stop and ask myself what's the greatest
value that I could offer that is
completely unique to me it's escaping
the matrix
I want to jump in and remind our
facebook live audience you can win this
book today if you share the video there
are the life issues and then I think
maybe we should jump into our next
giveaway so this one involves Instagram
as well this is both we're gonna give
away one book for face book and one book
for Instagram you're gonna need to
comment now here's the question
listen carefully guess the number of
experts featured in Tim's new book tools
of titans there are a lot this is a
thick weighty tome Tom is the only word
for that book any guess the number of
experts that he features in this book
that are packed in and will let people
guess for a few minutes and then the
person who's closest will give a witness
I like to think the person who gives it
exactly right because they read it just
know they just know deep in their soul
yeah when you told me the answer I was
like did you count there I did he
actually did counted I thought maybe
they released something in a prosecutor
or something but now agents men actually
counted
all right let's jump over to our next
question while people are guessing let's
talk about exponential thinking versus
linear thinking nice big theme of the
episode I'm gonna read a quote the Tim
says the most interesting things happen
at the fringes first so let's talk about
what that means
exponential thinking it's definitely
something Tim is very good at thinking
about how to you 10x your results and
decrease your timeline so why is that
important and how do you practice it
well I think you have two different
questions there and let's see if I can
hold them both of my head so one is we
have the most interesting things happen
at the fringe and I'm I am so fascinated
by the concept I wrote that one down to
really really impacted me and then the
other is exponential thinking versus
linear thinking so this is a Peter
Diamandis special who Tim brought up in
the episode i'm i've gotten to know
Peter very well being on the board of
the XPrize and it is it is a paradigm
shift and Peter Thiel talks about this a
lot as well it's the difference between
you know an incremental improvement and
going from zero to one you know that
instead of trying to have a 10%
improvement how do you have a 10x
improvement and and what does
exponential thinking really look like so
the way that Peter explains it and I've
always loved this is if you take I think
it's 30 linear steps you'll end up about
30 meters away okay so you know from
here to halfway through my driveway so
not very far
whereas if you do ten exponential steps
which is exponential is simple doubling
so one doubles two to two doubles for
four doubles to eight age 16 so on and
so forth in 30 steps you're a billion
meters away Wow yeah so is something
like around the earth 26 times or
something
so the difference linear being my
driveway and then
potential being 26 times around the
earth you really get a sense of the
scale and it all comes down to being
willing to think that big so I'll give
you guys so Tim has talked about in fact
Jesus is great it's right from the
episode about having you know one sort
of serious very weighty goal and then
having one that's a more frivolous fun
goal and so my way deagle I you know I
think everybody knows is we want to
fundamentally shape culture through the
incubation of companies of content and
giving people the ideology around which
companies and content should be built
and then helping them actually put that
into practice and I think through doing
that we can end what I refer to as
generational poverty which is the
mindset it's not about money I don't
need people to want money but they just
need to believe that certain things are
possible and then most importantly know
how to execute against that okay that's
the like the big [__] mission but
then I have a more fun sort of a small
goal and that is I want to be the first
entrepreneur with his own thank you shoe
here first your first and so that to me
is nice that to me is an example of
exponential thinking because who is
gonna be a big enough ass to think that
like they can have their own I get you
right Jordan has a Nike shoe
entrepreneurs don't get thank you shoes
so yet yet right and so that's literally
and and now I actually want people to
take this deadly seriously
so just because I'm willing to allow
myself to believe that I can make that a
possibility it's getting scary like how
many people are making connections for
me so a woman who works at Nike Plus
just reached out to me to speak at USC
and so everybody here was like freaking
out they're like I'm my god like it's a
step closer and then just yesterday I
got introduced to a high-level executive
at Nike because I happen to tell a
friend of mine
you know I want to be the first person
with a shoot he's like oh my god one of
my closest friends it's like a
high-level executives like I'll hook you
guys up so we connected on email last
night and I said look I know this is
crazy but I want to be the first
entrepreneur with his own Nike shoe and
I said look I'm a super diehard hey I'm
just total sneaker head and be on the
Nike fanatic and so I sent some links
you know of like talks I've given and
then obviously the show and said make
sure you look at the kicks and that to
me like is just freeing my mind up from
the voice in my head that says you can't
do this and that to me is the difference
between linear thinking and exponential
thinking because the linear thinker will
allow themselves to believe that one day
they can afford a pair of Nike shoes
right like it actually right and then an
exponential thinker says no [__] that
like I don't just want to make a movie I
want to influence culture through
content I'm not just gonna afford a pair
of Nikes I'm gonna get my own Nike shoe
right so that that is it comes down to a
willingness to believe in something just
absurd and that
knowing that people are gonna think
you're ridiculous that they're gonna
shower you with hate but what I want
everyone to understand when people say
that you're putting it out into the
universe let's make that really concrete
for a second human beings cannot help
you if they don't know what you're
looking for right they're not a mind
reader right so whatever grand goal you
have until you start telling people it
won't seem real and then all of a sudden
once you start telling people it does
seem cosmic because it's like all of a
sudden like oh I could get you here
oh I can get you that for oh I can make
this introduction and so it seems like
whoa what is happening but the reality
is you just started telling people and
you know people are gonna have
connections and they're gonna do what
they can and if you keep pushing it and
you know keep focused over a long enough
period of time you you will be shocked
at what will relent to that all right
and now just to prove to myself that I'm
getting better at this
the other idea that I had to hold in my
head it was
exponential thinking it was living at
the fringes alright so and that's
practice boys and girls that's how you
get better if it's make demands of
yourself and see if you can pull it off
living at the fringes why do I think
that is such a powerful concept I I
think it's a sexy comment I think it's
one of those notions that really is like
we all want it to be true and when you
are living in the middle if you've ever
seen penguins
what they do is when it gets really cold
they get into like a big cluster and
they actually take turns rotating
through the center so the center it's
the warmest and then obviously at the
outer edge is going to be the coldest
there's so much safety in the center
there's so much safety where everybody
else is and where you're thinking the
same way as everybody else there's no
danger of being ostracized which is is
you know that Austria's Asian registers
and the pain centers in the brain like
physically yeah it's crazy
so we hate we hate as a species that
notion of like being turned away from
people being kicked out of a group like
it is so painful but once you're out of
the edges that's where you can really
discover that's where you can be bold
that's where you can find something that
other people just aren't thinking of and
certainly not seeing because you you
really are at the outer edges and I mean
there's I can give you a lot of
analogies like for instance get out of a
city and it's unbelievable how many
stars are actually there you just can't
seem because of the light pollution in a
city and all of a sudden the world feels
truly different but it's not right all
those stars were there they were all
shining just as brightly there was just
something around you that stopped you
from seeing them but those were you know
no matter how many of those I give you
they're all just going to be analogies
the reality is I think once you're not
focused on fitting in then you start
making unique connections because over
time and it almost never happens like
right away because even
you turn away from the group stop
seeking the approval of the group at
first you're still gonna have the group
mentality you're still gonna be thinking
in the same way but once you're looking
at the not even looking once you're like
feeling like what's real to me what
feels good to me and all of my unique
experience and all the you know the
different life that I've lived and the
things that I find interesting the
farther you go down that path the more
things will reveal themselves you know
so I think we're a very a traditional
business podcast and in the beginning
like that was a hard choice right to be
me and I remember in the beginning like
someone would say something it was
sparked something really goofy in me and
I didn't want people to think that I was
goofy cuz I thought God had they gonna
think that like I'm a fool and then I
thought wait a second like these are all
the instincts that have led me to where
I've gotten and if I'm you know afraid
to show people that I'll never get far
enough down the path of this really
being a unique show you know so we had
back-to-back neuroscientists on the show
you not gonna see that in a lot of
business podcast why because the brain
is the secret once you understand that
you can do something so that's why I
think people need to be at the edges
that's why I think and I think the quote
originally came from Kurt Vonnegut if
not originally from him
almost certainly Tim has that quote in
the book and it really is true that's a
great jumping-off point for this next
question about copywriting your faults
so that's something that you guys
discuss in the episode so you've talked
that you talked about it just now but in
sort of in order to copyright your
faults you so you have to accept them
first right you have to accept your own
idiosyncrasies so how do people do that
how do they go from that place of
putting themselves out in the world
living on the fringes fear of us being
ostracized how do you start working
towards that here's the honest answer
you got to get good like you got to be
good there there are a lot of things
that you're afraid of doing and you
should
because you suck at them and if you go
into something saying I'm not good at
this I'm gonna practice I'm gonna get
good this is a long time horizon I'm
gonna work my ass off this is gonna be a
long process and I don't mind doing it
and quiet I don't mind I don't need
people to think it's cool or to
appreciate what I'm doing I'm just gonna
get better at this and then you really
begin to put yourself out there once
you're you've proven that it has utility
that you're actually able to do
something that is powerful it's a good
technique you know that that really is
the key and so for me like being silly
or goofy or whatever I've just found
that that's actually an effective way to
connect with people because they see
that it's you that's real and that I
know enough about myself to know that I
won't push the goofiness to the part
where it breaks the interview right so
if I didn't know how to do that if I
hadn't practice that just in real life
from you know being myself in a business
meeting or whatever which which was a
very long process I cannot tell you how
long I probably spent I mean it's a
scale right it wasn't binary but for a
decade in business I I was only some
shade of myself because I wasn't
confident and I wasn't good and so it
took me time to know like I'm gonna
deliver value in this meeting like I'm
I'm gonna crush it I'm gonna see what we
need to do to make this happen and so
it's okay for me to be silly it's okay
for me to be playful because I will
deliver value in this meeting and if you
can't deliver value and you're just
being silly and playful then you become
a distraction and at that point it is
way better that you try to be at the
center of the Penguins right like know
when you're strong enough to be at the
edge and if you're not strong enough to
be the edge like you know you have to be
you have to be you have to be really
careful and really insightful into
yourself and if you guys saw the movie
into the wild
great movie but kid dies and it's like a
jury right so he goes out of the
wilderness he's unprepared he dies and
you know I love its great tail he's
super brave but at the same time like
dude [__] do some shorter explicit
expeditions with a way but your safety
net until you know how to cure meat and
all of that so that you can survive a
winter he just went too fast too soon
you know and he paid the ultimate price
so that's like I always tell people I
will augment my brain is this stuff
happens and they're bringing out
microchips and things you can implant
but I won't be an early adopter like any
[__] mind like unless you have like
some major malfunction in your brain to
be the first person to put a chip in you
crazy I won't be the first person on
Mars right like build some structures so
knowing when you're strong enough to be
on the outside is crew awesome alright
let's check in with our live audience so
does anybody know Cindy do we have
anyone who so if there's anyone who got
it exactly
so it's anyone who got it exactly and
then anyone who's closest will take over
or under oh I know who that is
oh yeah that it sounds that's that's our
boy Ian indeed it is you know you just
want to copy I love that username too
little beach boys you just went in we're
gonna send this to you enjoy the book
and thanks for all your support if
anyone else freaked out by Agent Smith
right now but he got that reference that
was though and you're absolutely right
that's nice I don't know whether to be
blown away by you or really embarrassed
by me
[Music]
many people considered the greatest
album of all times called pet sounds and
it was right at the height of Brian
Wilson right as mental illness and he
literally brought it like goats and all
kinds of crazy stuff into the studio and
recorded just crazy sounds but turned it
into what at the time was panned but
what now is considered by many the
greatest songs of all time all right
that's a Instagram I'm assuming right
anyone on Facebook
[Music]
Wow Facebook has let us down come on
guys what's what's happening
[Music]
all right one who's closest
and
[Music]
110 sounds really close and the reason
it sounds closest because the answer is
113 I counted them up
Dave Gonzalez you just won a copy of
tools of title 9 Congrats Congrats guys
done attend this is a book you're really
gonna want to actually read and as Tim
describes it it's a buffet right you can
dip into bout you can have as much as
you want yeah and it really really
delivers and you know there's a certain
people in the world I'm grateful they
exist I'm grateful that's in Paris exist
I know
grateful for this book this book was
really really useful and it's I think a
field reference guide be sure to check
out my review if you're on the fence
about this one we released a review yeah
ya know release it this week Thursday so
on Thursday we'll be releasing the book
review check it out and also I'd love to
know what you guys think about the
format I'm trying to do something
totally different with the book reviews
and it's not just a you know straight
sort of summary of the book I'm trying
to give you how it's impacted me how I
plan to use it in my life how I think
you can use it some of the quotes that
are really really strong that you should
integrate into your life it's the format
of book review I always wanted and my
goal with the book reviews is not to
make it so that you don't need to read
the book because that would be foolish
that would be to miss the opportunity to
find out what you uniquely would take
away from the book right which i think
is the point of reading a book like for
sure you're gonna take away things that
somebody else won't that's what makes
you uniquely you that's what makes you
valuable it's that you're gonna have
some insight that other people won't
that's something you'll respond to that
other people wouldn't respond to and so
it's always a little mortifying that
people are trying to find the cliff
notes and not read the book it's like
that's the whole point to supercharge
your own life and then have some
you know nuance that you pick up on that
you can leverage in your life to do
something incredible going back to that
notion of standing at the edges it's
like man if your whole life is about
finding the cliffnotes like I'm gonna
eat your lunch because I'm right like
I'm going all-in I'm trying to figure
out what I can do and how I can learn
from this now I can push myself I'm not
asking what's the least I can do I'm
asking what the most I can bear is and
so the goal here is is to get you to
meet the books right not to help you get
an A in your high school
so we got one more giveaway to kickoff
for today
this one is for Facebook and Instagram
now like Tom mentioned earlier we are
really trying to hit a new and
noteworthy on iTunes for our podcast
that's going to help us grow that much
faster but we need your help we need you
to subscribe subscribe first of all and
then we need you to rate and review us
so anyone who sends in a screen grab of
their review on iTunes and we get also
their screen grab with the subscription
cuz isn't that what we really need we
need people to subscribe yeah so an
indication that you've been subscribed I
think you can give us a screen grab of
that you should be able to send it to
connect that impact Theory com that's
connected impact Theory comm and we will
choose a winner well maybe we'll choose
a couple of winners winner winner
chicken dinner let's do a couple on that
one cuz that's big guys that'll really
help us out and look our whole ask we're
not asking for money all we need we need
you guys help us grow this community
if you've read about our phase one two
and three plans for the company you know
the phase one is all about community
building so we're trying to build this
as rapidly as possible and it's all
value add right so our ask is if we've
added value to your life please there'll
be a few things that we're gonna ask for
like subscribing like rate review and if
you could help us out with that it would
just mean the world that's gonna be how
we pull this off so we're still heavy
heavy in phase one we need we need those
subscriptions that right now is what's
gonna get us on new and noteworthy so I
am not afraid to ask that's why I need
you guys to do go out and subscribe to I
tune
that's right all right let's dive into a
couple more questions so Tim has 17
questions that you're supposed to ask
right in order to get better at
something he one of the questions is how
do how do I learn from my enemy so how
do I learn from people I hate the most
as I think his phrasing this one struck
me as being very powerful it's and his
idea that you're separating your
morality from your effectiveness which i
think is a really interesting idea does
this ring true for you as well its
concept
yeah massively and I don't think it
think of it as separating my morality
from it which is actually pretty
interesting and maybe controversial what
I think of it as is everybody has
something for me to learn and the only
thing that stopping me is me shutting
down my own mind and that really really
scares me and so I worry a lot about my
notions calcifying into dogma and and
those are fancy words and I do love that
phrase so I keep using it but what I
mean by calcifying the dogma is when you
believe something it's helpful right in
your world's codified you know it's a
yes to what to say no to you know how to
move forward it's very very useful to
believe things but when you believe them
absolutely and you don't question or
check those beliefs then your world is
limited right you you know the universe
of options begins to shrink shrink
shrink shrink shrink that's why it is
cited Peter Diamandis or Elon Musk it
says and an expert is somebody you can
tell you exactly how something can't be
done and that's always resonated with me
and it's not useful I don't need to know
how things can't be done because first
of all maybe it didn't work the way you
did it or when you did it that doesn't
mean that it won't work now or in a
slight variation and people tend to
close a lot of doors that way so I
really really worry about that and then
also you know the example that he gives
is Newt Gingrich or you know God
really want to get political which I
don't but I'll give you an example so I
watched uh I think it was nerdwriter I
think it was nerdwriter daughter this my
mom was certain that did a breakdown of
how Trump uses language yeah and he did
that yeah and I was like wow there's a
lot to learn like it's actually really
impactful and it it changed the way that
I write my Instagram posts because
instead of trying to use words like cows
find a dogma right which most people do
not understand they're know what that
means that you really need to speak in a
way that people can understand that's
effective that hits you and yeah so to
your point about Tim Singh he's
separating his morality and I think what
he means by that is simply like this
person offends his emergence of what is
right but that doesn't mean that they
don't have a powerful lesson in there
and so I you know I very very much agree
with that I think that people should
take a lesson from wherever it comes
whether it is from somebody who's just
outright evil to me it's completely
irrelevant if they have a powerful
lesson and take the lesson for what it's
worth and use it for good right so don't
limit your worldview just because the
messenger happens to be a dick
there it is let's go to the community be
we have any questions from our live
audience
[Music]
while we're looking for that I just want
to say it's interrupt me the second you
have something but community you cannot
imagine how much we love you here like
you guys are amazing all the interaction
is so cool the suggestions people
recommend books to me all the time
guests just feedback on what they like
what they don't like what's working
what's not working like we think about
you guys a lot we talk about you guys a
lot you really sit at the epicenter of
what we're trying to do here and and are
just so grateful for the people
especially the ones that are super super
engaged thank you guys so much just know
that that really is the the juice to
everything that we're doing and what
keeps us focused and pushing forward so
thank you guys and the thing that I find
most thrilling about this community is
you guys help each other and the way
that you guys have banded together that
you ask questions of each other
seek help it's just awesome so
two questions
leaders and he has thoughts on Chapter
two
yeah can you can you give us something
more like unfortunately I don't never
chapter 2 is agent
that's gonna happen the time and so it's
a repeat the question how do we erase
the stigma of mental health so here's
here's how anything changes like that
so either you or someone you know and
love has said problem and it erases the
stigma in your own mind I forget who
said it but somebody said you know it's
hard to hate somebody you love and so
you know for me I'll just take obesity
like you want to talk about having zero
judgment on people that are obese that
would be me because so many people that
I love struggle profoundly with obesity
so it's like it doesn't make me think
less of them dude love them and so as
you see that more and more than more and
more people are touched by it then
people get brave and they start
admitting it
so like Carrie Fisher did a lot to bring
attention to bipolar disorder yeah
because she has such a voice and so many
people love her and love her character
it's like well this you know person that
I love and look up to they have this
thing and so I guess it can't be that
bad
and it really begins to diminish like
that over time and you know and from all
the brave people who stand up in the
name of other people stand up in the
name of themselves and and then
tolerance just I think is is the thing
that is born generation after generation
every generation is a little more
tolerant and accepting and you know I
wish there was a way to supercharge that
and obviously we have our theories about
ways to break people out of ideas that
don't serve them I've never really
thought of it specifically as you know
tolerance or
except it's a mental illness or anything
but definitely think about ideas that
either server don't and and spreading
ideology empowering ideology is why we
exist as a company so that is precisely
what we're doing that is precisely how
Lisa and I have decided to spend you
know the rest of our lives is putting
that at the center and you get a
community like this who reinforces that
in each other and I think the ideas can
spread and I think now in the hyper
connected world that things spread
faster you know I do worry that you can
get ideology spreading faster than I
don't like and think is moving people
backwards but you can also get ideology
that truly is empowering them so yeah
it's going to come from people talking
about it and you'll hear me talk about
anxiety a lot because I've struggled
with anxiety so you know just you get
more of that yeah
gotcha face - okay that's a lot easier
to talk about in chapter 2 of the book
so to give everybody context phase one
is building the community phase two is
what I'll call mining for astronauts and
then phase 3 is monetizing what those
astronauts end up creating mining for
astronauts is just another phrase but
like I really love it and I know nobody
knows what that means so let me break
down I believe right now the next great
mind is lost somewhere in the Compton
and they don't believe in themselves and
nobody's ever given them any positive
reinforcement whatsoever but they're
gonna create the next great company or
they're gonna create the next great
movie or start the next great social
movement you know whatever the case but
right now they don't believe in
themselves because they don't believe in
themselves and they don't have a set of
ideology that's going to allow them to
pull themselves out of the matrix they
will be if somebody doesn't intervene
lost forever
so in Phase two we're going to be
leveraging the community that we've
built and a layer of technology which
we're exploring heavily we may have to
build ourselves but I had a very
encouraging meeting the other day here
with the team and with the technologists
who maybe has already developed
something that would be just incredibly
useful and what we'll be looking for
from you guys is the virality of an idea
that you really believe in so whether
that's a company and obviously our thing
is it's got to be a mission based
company you doesn't have to change the
world but it needs to make the world a
better place so you know doesn't have to
end world hunger or end poverty but it
needs to contribute positively so we're
gonna be looking only for companies that
have that kind of mission that are
driven by that but there's way too many
ideas you know even just the emails I
ignore that are already coming in
are too many to really dive into but so
what we're looking for is this community
that we're putting together to tell us
these are the companies and the types of
content that we want to see and then our
role once something has popped and gone
viral so that that's phase two sort of a
if you will and phase 2b is to bring
those people in and incubate that and
what I mean by that is teaching them how
to execute and execution is the only
thing that matter so knowing how to
actually build a company is just
insanely critical and I don't think
people are naturally good at that I
think most people are completely
terrible at that but I happen to believe
that they can get good at that
we've certainly been true for myself so
creating an environment where people can
do that but only people that have
already you know passed hurdles so if
you think of it like Fight Club I like
to think of movies you got to stand
outside the door in the rain for four
days right it just has to happen we have
to have some filter in enduring is gonna
be a key part of that a willingness to
learn showing a willingness to improve
like you have to do all that before you
get to us and unfortunately as much as I
wish
actually I don't wish it [__] that
here's the truth I'm not going to spend
my time on one on once it doesn't scale
so if you're gonna get to me you've got
to have like done other things that show
that you're ready that you'll actually
make use of that time that's best the
naked truth
so that's really what phase 2a is about
the phase 2b I'm gonna help them get
there and then phase three is we're
going to monetize that I believe that
Commerce is the only way to make
something self-sustaining so we're gonna
turn those ideas and content into
something that is you know to put simple
words around it
merchandise cool so your company needs
to sell something and then your your
content needs to be merchandised
I'm not just looking for things that are
a great movie or a great TV series it
really has to be monetizable so if you
look at what Marvel Studios is doing or
you look at what Pixar is doing it is
a Disney to me is is on the acquisition
end of what we're doing from a Content
perspective where they just wait for
something be culturally relevant and
then they buy it what I'm saying is we
want to make the things that are
culturally relevant and then monetize
that largely through merchandising which
is why the obsession with I'm trying to
change the way that people dress you'll
notice that I always wear a shirt that
represents something that I believe I
want more people doing that I want to
make those shirts and I want that
ideology to be born of what we do I'm
obsessed with shoes why because it's
self-expression I want people to express
themselves so all of these things are
going to be things that we really work
with upcoming entrepreneurs to help
bring more of that to the world just
kidding what's up Dave so this David you
guys haven't or guys be having some
Dave's video he's the only person that's
ever gotten me to mentor him one-on-one
he made a video it was super impressive
and anybody in fact Dave if you can if
you can put that link to your video that
would be amazing I'm guessing by the
camera or you're looking at her phone
you're looking at that he might be on IG
and I don't know if they allow links but
it's it was pretty phenomenal and really
goes into or it shows exactly what you
need to do to give somebody's attention
so he blew me away
research the hell out of me knew what
would motivate me knew what I was
looking for knew how to show me that
working with it would actually be as
good for me as it was for him was just
very very impressive so for anybody
that's trying to get somebody to be
their mentor they
what's the question
[Music]
how do we know man those are great
questions okay so we've got penguins and
we've got metaphors you have a business
I think that the two best metaphors are
war and sports the reason that I think
that is war to me is about standing up
for something that you believe in I'm
not the manifest destiny type so when I
think of war I don't think of the
aggressor I think of somebody coming at
you and you know you've got something
that you believe in you've got something
that you're trying to do and accomplish
and you're just not gonna back down and
you're prepared to go all the way right
you know and war obviously is an
absolutely horrific human tragedy but it
is it is utterly fascinating to me that
it is the one constant in all of like
human evolution and them even you can go
back and look at monkeys and how they
have warring tribes I mean it's crazy
town so it is to me just a fundamental
part of what it means to be human is not
being really not being willing to be
bullied and you know people that grow
stronger and push back and are willing
to fight go all the way and that's
something that I really really think
about and you know when we were when I
was at Quest Day today I should say that
was something that I thought a lot about
is look I'm trying to save my mom and my
sister and it's something incredibly
beautiful and I want to be motivated by
beauty and rage equal measure and at the
same time there's this entire industry
of people that are doing things the
wrong way in my opinion and they're
taking this or an easy cheap way out I
don't think they were evil
thinking anybody in the food industry is
sinister I just think that they've got
perverse incentives and easy and cheap
is a great way to make money and you
know so that's what we were fighting
against was just the the laziness of the
industry and and so you know coming in
and really thinking of it like hey this
is like the stakes are high this is a
fight like we've got to be in here we've
got to know what we believe in because
let me tell you if you're gonna keep
fighting and really pushing and you
don't have that thing that's driving you
that you know like this is why I show up
every day this is what I'm trying to
accomplish this is what I would die for
then god you're just gonna have a hard
time fighting and the decision to do
impact Theory was really me saying that
that concept taken to its extreme is
impact theory and that's why I wanted to
spend my days on that that you know my
dad gave me this sign that just really
really hit me and it said find something
you would die for and live for it and I
think that's so so important and you
know I want people to understand that
that's not something that you've had
since birth or anything it's just like a
passion that's got to be cultivated
right it starts with something like hey
that seems like an injustice or hey I
see I'm really passionate about wanting
to see that you know push forward and
then as you get more involved and you
develop mastery and you gain a deeper
understanding of what the pro really is
and what the solution is like and
whether you want to meaningfully
contribute to that then it grows and
blossoms and becomes much bigger in your
life but that was that's that thing for
me so that's super powerful and then you
know thinking of it like sports I think
is also powerful to take some of the
edge off I like thinking the extremes
but there's so many amazing tales from
sports like the Jordan flu game like all
of those those great sports stories
comebacks the impossible
like you know also just practice
practice practice the the number of
stories of people who just weren't
physically talented that people told
them they would never play and they go
in to be in the Hall of Fame like those
stories feed my soul and it's funny the
most controversial piece of content that
we put out is impact Theory do you know
what it is so it is the the keynote
speech that I gave at Freedom Fastlane
like that [__] is crazy controversial
and what did I say that was
controversial
I said natural talents [__] and that
you can do anything you set your mind to
and people went crazy and they're like
oh that's BS like you know natural
talents real thing and of course don't
you hope you can become anything you
want to be so why would you waste even a
seconds worth of energy trying to
convince me that is not true like that's
so insane to me you actually put effort
into trying to tell me that there are
things that I can't do why
to what end like that is that is the
total definition of madness and trying
to be more accepting a mental illness
like maybe I should be more open to that
but that is so insane to me that you
would get angry that you would take your
time and that you would try to attack a
stranger for having a belief that if
it's true empowers you and powers him
empowers other people like that's so
yeah I just sports is a great great
entry point for that to really see just
amazing amazing
some people overcoming a lack of natural
talent discipline effort promise of
working and then how do you know what
metrics I think was in fact how to go
from inside the penguin circle to
outside I don't have a metric I'll try
and make something up here on the spot
we'll see if it resonates but it really
comes down to confidence in surety and
I'm a huge believer that confidence is
just a brain chemistry state that you
can decide to be confident and cultivate
that but the best kind of confidence is
is always born of competence
so getting competent is is just first
and foremost and so you know being at
the center of the penguin circle is
going to be content-specific
obviously so there are some things in my
life where I'm on the center of the
penguin circle because I absolutely have
no idea what I'm doing and so I need to
be nice and safe and warm and there's
other things where I've developed a
strength and the competence and so I can
go stand on the outer edge but yeah it
comes down to competence get good at
things
yeah I don't we don't have a hard stop
so if we've the community is holding
steady or growing lost rigt
I just done oh you have Teresa we
started so I want to jump in with a
question here can I can I just take a
second and first I want to say I love
this team more than you can imagine
agent Smith's in the you guys are both
incredible human beings and I hope that
I make you feel that believe it to the
core of your [__] being but I want
everyone to think for a second that IG
put a limit on us of an hour and we
accepted that and that these two are
gonna beat themselves up for that later
that is so crazy town all you have to do
is hit restart so and this is something
that I find young entrepreneurs fall
prey to a lot like you need to push back
you need to question you need to
challenge everything because if you
accept the rules if you accept the
limitations that other people Instagram
or anybody try to place a new I will not
let Mark Zuckerberg determine for me how
long my Instagram podcast is so yeah
fair enough
all right quick question for you the
Derek Siver's story the episode is a
really good one so Tim says that you
know he was riding his bike he was
pushing for 43 minutes on this certain
path and he was not having any fun
anymore and so he decided that he was
gonna go out on a leisurely I'm doing
air quotes right now easily bike ride
and he only lost two minutes so by
huffing and puffing by straining he was
getting 43 minutes by enjoying the
process he was getting 45 minutes so
what do you think's behind this is that
is that an effective strategy to just
step back and
you know I'm gonna enjoy this instead of
trying to push so hard not always but
there's a great lesson in that so I'm a
huge believer that you have to push
yourself and you've got to be like to me
I asked myself all the time what's the
thing that I'm willing to break myself
and have for what's that thing that like
I so believe in that I'm gonna fight
through when I'm sick or that when it
gets really hard or boring let's just
talk about boring like what's that thing
you believe in so much that you're gonna
keep going even's boring because that's
normally what happens right [__] just
cuz boring yeah
like you don't want to do it anymore and
the example I was given when we're here
because I'm just looking at it is this
set right we had to hand paint the set
which never should have happened but
nonetheless it was the situation that we
were in Strahan was coming like in
minutes and the set just had to be
painted so we're in there you know
painting by hand if super [__]
tedious we're doing it literally in the
middle of the night it was like 3:00
a.m. and painting the set and I just
thought this is that boring stuff that
nobody really thinks about but I really
believe in what we're trying to
accomplish right so am I willing to
paint this set and be bored out of my
mind and go without a night's sleep too
and generational poverty yes I am okay
well then you do that right so see there
there are things that you just want
badly enough to really push in and I
think that that's how you try and send
your limitations is by pushing going
super [__] hard now having said that
in Derek's story he said he was no
longer enjoying the process and he was
you know thinking about giving up I
think at that point yeah you really do
need to find a joy you need to find the
beauty in even in things you willing to
break yourself and half for like can you
find something that you love and that
you're super stoked on I I think you can
and should and so that's an equally
important question and you know before I
would so when I first started doing
inside quest I was super anxious I get
really nervous before going on and so I
asked Lisa like before I go on I don't
want a big pep talk I don't want to tell
me like how good I am at this that's not
what I'm looking for what I want just
whisper in my ear have fun
that's what I want to be reminded that
yeah I want to be reminded that this is
supposed to be fun I want to be reminded
that this is this is a cool and exciting
moment for me to learn right so if you
put that notion if I had the concept
that this should be enjoyable that that
it actually is something that I really
enjoy then my head will be in the right
place and so that I his story the moral
is not lost on me it's I think that's
incredibly powerful I just that's one of
those things that I don't want people to
think that it's binary because there are
some things you just have to push nice
alright I just want to remind everyone
we are live we're doing giveaways you
can still win this book by sending in
your screen grab of a subscription and a
review it's a podcast impact Theory with
Tom Billy on iTunes please send it to
connect at impact Theory comm and we
will tell you those up and we'll give a
few books away today also anyone who
shares the Facebook live feed will also
be included in that giveaway so please
second giveaway so we have a hundred
copies of this we're giving them away
all week long we're gonna be doing a lot
of giveaways on Instagram as well on
Tom's IG so turn on notifications if you
want to be the first to hear about
things in fact this is the official
announcement of the five minute Club the
five minute Club it's going to be
something that we go way harder on here
in the future
our goal is engagement right so we want
to be engaging with you guys and to do
that we want to reward the people that
turn on notifications that engage with a
post within the first five minutes so
turn that on now if you don't know how
to do it it's the three dots right
across from my name so if my name is in
the upper left then it would be
on the upper right processor e dots turn
on notifications that will be notified
when I post something and you can be
eligible for giveaways not just this
book we're gonna be doing a lot of stuff
with the five minute Club so get in it
get in that five these do Cindy any
questions from the community okay let's
do it
[Music]
Gabriel Tom with Tim said that the
secret to creativity was to establish
lakotas you really seemed surprised by
not surprise to what he said about
establishing goals to do small things
but to don't intimidate you may open
many doors for me since the toughest
challenge I'm facing today to stop what
I'm doing and start working on projects
basically motivation what do you think
of this perspective yeah I so he's
telling the story of IBM and I thought
of all people IBM and just have crushing
sales numbers and as somebody that's had
to you know work with the sales team to
set quotas and stuff the instinct really
is you don't want it to be so high in
the trees in fact the exact thing you're
trying to do is find the balance between
something that is aggressive enough that
it will really get them to push but not
so high that they that they feel it's
impossible and so they don't push right
and what he was saying that IBM back in
the day when they were just absolutely
killing every company around them their
sales you know we're just just
demolishing everything that they
actually had the industry's lowest
quotas and it was very surprised by that
and still as somebody like if I were to
set sales quotas today I think actually
would test it I was intrigued enough
that I would give it a shot but I have a
huge huge fear of incentivizing people
to be lazy so here's here's the reality
I know what it's like to keep your head
down do as little work as possible and
avoid punishment at all cost and the
fact is like that's where most people
live it's some shade of that like most
people aren't just crazy driven to do
whatever the hell it takes because they
feel like for them to be the person they
want to be that's what they have to do
right has nothing to do with anything
extrinsic it is all internal when you
find someone that's internally driven
like that it doesn't matter what sales
quote recording you give them because
they're gonna go after what they believe
in and they're gonna go you know just
guns a-blazing to
become the person that they're trying to
become everything comes back to identity
for me so but it's rare and and most
people you know they're gonna they're
gonna get distracted they're gonna get
caught up and if they don't have some
sort of stimulus then you know I think
that it would be tough but it would be
interesting to try so one thing that we
tried a quest and I actually don't think
it works what we're doing here at impact
theory cuz I think that the concept is
right I just think you have to have but
establish from day one is we have an
unlimited vacation policy so these guys
can take off a day whenever the hell
they want they can take off as many as
they want so our only thing is you have
to get your work done
right so we've got a big goal the reason
that works now is everybody's here for
that goal right everybody gets it like
when you're on a small team there's
seven of us when you're on a small team
like you can be totally bought into that
mission totally into what your role is
and that you know what it is there's you
know it isn't if you think of it as the
Sun at the center like everybody's warm
there's no hiding
yeah there's no hiding either for sure
it's like Jesus if you're not doing
something everyone's gonna be like eh
what the [__] like I'm over here killing
ourselves so I think that it really
works and I think that if you baked it
into the culture early enough then I
think it's really really successful so
that to me is is one of those things
that we're trying and if it ends up
being wrong you know then of course we
can switch it away but the truth is like
I want people to feel like they control
their own lives
and I know that autonomy is such a
motivator for people and then I just
have no tolerance for people who are
getting things done so it's like if you
need a babysitter this isn't a place for
you right right
so yeah bring it all back round to the
question it's it's gonna come down to
low quotas like that I think work when
you have people that are driven
internally
and it won't work if they're if they're
you know doing the carrot stick thing
interesting
more questions it's in their best
interest to teach us my question is how
can you possibly do that when we
inherently don't have okay so that that
is just a fundamental misunderstanding
of what you're going to be offering them
because really time and energy is such
such a big thing and if you happen to
also be hardworking like that goes a
long way as well so here's the pitch
that I think anyone should give to
somebody that they're trying to mentor
and this was obviously a variation of
what they enter grassed gave me and it
goes something like this dear sir ma'am
I asked myself one simple question who
is living the life that I want to live
and you were the person that identified
I really believe in what you're trying
to accomplish them totally blown away by
it
what I'd like to do is trade you my time
and energy for your knowledge and and
that's it you don't need to pay me
anything and I will work for free for 90
days I'll be the hardest-working and
smartest working person that you've ever
come across I'm gonna completely pour
myself into doing this I will refuse no
task I will do whatever you ask me to do
the only thing I ask in exchange is
knowledge and at the end of the 90 days
I believe I will make myself so
indispensable to you that you will want
to put me on payroll just to not lose me
but if I don't then you know no harm no
foul I'm out of time
you've gotten somebody for free for 90
days and as long as that really is the
person that you actually want to work
for it's a total winning strategy now
the thing that people have to understand
is no there's nothing to understand that
that's a fact that would still work on
me that's it yeah I was gonna say like
yeah like somebody because we do get
people that write in but there's always
some other complication that makes it
troubling but that that is so key
takeaway is you're not trading expertise
with this person you're not saying I'll
give you my expertise for your expertise
just trading work yeah time energy yeah
so because you know like what I when I
think about what's stunting the growth
of impact Theory it is purely we know
what to do right we just don't have
enough people to do everything yeah so
I'm not looking I mean I play if you're
also an expert something that'd be
amazing but I think that when people
come with no expectation other than
knowledge it could actually be a good
trade if people are coming because they
think they're an expert in this and they
really want to get paid for it in 90
days chances are you gonna be
disappointed because if we had budget
for that thing then we would have
already been paying for it so it you
know it really comes down to if at the
end of the 90 days you're completely
satisfied with the knowledge that you
gained in that 90 days and we really
can't shake hands and walk away and I
just have a stream of people coming in
for 90 days and and they're all killing
themselves great and then every now and
then you find a gem that you're like wow
what you're showing a propensity for and
your energy and everything fits so well
that that we actually do want to put you
on payroll because we're afraid to lose
you but that you didn't do it for that
reason that it wasn't getting you
weren't gonna considered a bust if you
made it to the 90 days and didn't get
anything for that so it does really come
down to your willingness to truly make
good on that that you know
90 days we shake hands apart ways
[Music]
then why do you think monetization is so
important in getting people to learn or
accept new concepts can you please
explain I don't I don't think
monetization has anything to do with
people learning or accepting new
concepts I think monetization you know
money profitability is the blood of a
business and just like none of us live
for our blood but without our blood we
can't live it's the same thing for
business if you don't have profit coming
in you can't stay in business you every
company like you you are asking people
that even if you're a non-profit you're
asking people to give you money so like
money is at the center of all of this it
is the system that we have agreed we're
going to use right so until the world
moves away from that to a different
system it's the system so that's that to
me is is the only way to make it
self-sustaining Commerce right now is
the only way to make something
self-sustaining and certainly scale
Jesus you know you look at the big
companies look at what Google is able to
do build self-driving cars like had
nothing to do with the business nothing
they could build self-driving cars
because [__] they make like 50
billion dollars a day I'm [__]
obviously that's an exaggeration but
they make a lot of red just to remind
everyone we are on Facebook and IG live
you can't just here every Tuesday after
the podcast and YouTube episode launch
this is where we discuss it's called
after impact we dive in and we really
discussed the episode we're also giving
away tools of titans so go and subscribe
to the podcast on itunes rate review
send us a screengrab at connect at
impact Theory comm and you will be
eligible to win this book we're gonna
give a few of them away we're gonna keep
giving this book away because we have a
hundred copies so we got a lot to get
through
and if you guys remember my promise to
the community is I will keep answering
questions during these as long as the
numbers are holding steady or increasing
and then we wrap it up if they're going
down Cindy's going to tell us how we
doing on the numbers all right so we're
declining so we're gonna take one more
question
[Music]
so the question is for Tom what is the
most surprising thing that thing that
surprised you from your time with Tim
doesn't have to be from the interview
could be outside of that well the bad
news is the most surprising thing he
said we've already talked about which is
lower your standards which I love
what are some other like Tim is the the
thing that surprised me most really this
is long before I met it but when I was
reading the 4-hour workweek you know
everything about his approach was
counterintuitive yeah you know about
just deadly efficiency and when you once
you reframe it in your mind as being
about deadly efficiency and not just
working for hours a week which he's
obviously now struggled his entire
career to get people to understand that
he's still you know a workaholic and he
still works a lot it's just that he's
really looking for deadly efficiency but
also one concept that he has is to do
the opposite and I think that's a really
really useful tool to you know say I've
been doing it this way for a long time
but what if I flip the script you know
so my 9 hour Instagram post what if I
force myself to do it you know really
short so forcing yourself to challenge
all of your assumptions I think it's
just really really critical not
answering email you know I was somebody
that I I would make sure I answer every
email I had every day like that was like
a whole thing for me and reading his
book and realizing nope I'm not gonna do
that anymore and that remail something
other people dictate my schedule and I'm
not gonna do that and so literally now
and I'm sure it drives you guys all nuts
but I tell people that email is a 72
hour turnaround but the truth is it's
more like three weeks and that really if
something is important you surprise just
ask me because the chances that I miss
your email I don't check it it's very
very
all things like that word people just
feel all this social convention tied up
in it you know Tim really bucks social
convention yeah if you guys have ever
seen the movie funny games watch that
movie it's amazing it's a horror film so
full disclosure but it's about how this
family gets trapped because it's it
would be every little thing that the
killer's ask for is so small that they
they don't feel that they can say no and
trust me in the movie does not come off
cheesy like you really are like oh god
yeah I probably would say yes that and
and then all the sudden they're like
[__] trapped and it's crazy Tim that
would never happen right so in Tim's
world it would just end right away
because Tim is not afraid to bug social
convention absolutely yeah the the
question about what can I do that's the
opposite I think is really really
important because I think a lot of
people get trapped when something's not
working they don't know what to do
differently they don't know what to try
this difference so this is an easy way
to you know do the opposite it gives you
a direction right and then you are
probably gonna have some insights based
off of what you've done that's opposite
to figure out where you need to go next
when you need to try next love that love
that's a great insight thank you alright
guys so that's gonna wrap it we so
appreciate you guys joining and if I
could just give a shout out to this team
I love this team and AJ Smith by the way
cuz a lot of prep for these things so
Matt let's you don't think that there
wasn't it's fantastic and Cindy as
always is the life of this community and
yeah so thank you guys so much and then
it's the people that don't make it onto
camera or voice the rest of this team
they are just in humanly amazing
and I'm so grateful for all their
contributions so much luck to them
alright guys this is a weekly show so
make sure that you subscribe and our
last time will repeat this go right now
to iTunes subscribe to the podcast
that's how we're going to get on new
noteworthy and blow this thing up don't
forget all week giving away hundred
copies and tools of titans
alright thanks to Tim Ferriss for coming
on the show and until next time be
legendary my friends take care everyone